# IST-Thesis-LowPowerEdgeML4IoT

In this repository it is possible to find the code used for the thesis "Low Power Edge Machine Learning for IoT" developed at the Instituto Superior Técnico, Lisbon, Portugal.

The purpose of this work was to develop an IoT edge device capable of monitoring complex machines with vibration or audio data. For this, several machines were monitored where the edge device was adapted and improved and the data collected was used to train edge machine learning models. 

For this work to be reproducible and improved, this repository was created with most of the code developed. Apart from this README file, several folders have additional README files with more information about the code and the devices. The code implemented to monitor these machines is available in the repository and divided in:

- **VacuumCleanerMonitoringDevice**: To monitor a vacuum cleaner, an Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect was used to collect data from the vacuum cleaner and send it by Serial. The data was collected from the accelerometer and microphone that are built into the Arduino board.
- **AirConditionerMonitoringEdgeDevice**: To monitor an air conditioner unit, the edge device collects data from an MMA8451Q external accelerometer and processes it to extract features. The data was then sent by LoRa to the ThingsBoard IoT platform. This edge device also has low-power capabilities, being able to enter sleep mode and wake up periodically to collect, process and transmit data so that it can be deployed with a battery.
- **CNCiStartLabMonitoringDevices**: To monitor a CNC machine, a SparkFun OpenLog Artemis board and a Teensy 4.1 board were used to collect and store raw accelerometer data for later processing. The data was stored in a microSD card and then processed in Python to extract features and train machine learning models.
- **CNC_SOCEM_MonitoringDevices**: To add greater value to this work, it was decided to monitor a CNC machine from SOCEM, a mold machining company, during normal operations. For this, two edge devices were used. One was improved from the previous monitoring use cases, which is associated with the accelerometer and the other one was made with an Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect board collecting audio data. This device also has low-power capabilities, being able to enter sleep mode and wake up periodically to collect data so that it can be deployed with a battery. The data collected from these devices was sent by BLE to the ThingsBoard IoT platform.

The datasets collected from the Vacuum Cleaner and Air Conditioner are available in Kaggle: [Kaggle Datasets](https://www.kaggle.com/ricardofebra/datasets). To deploy the several devices developed, enclosures were designed and 3D printed, and these are available Printables platform: [Printables collection](https://www.printables.com/@RicardoFebra_1367277/collections/924809).

During the development of the devices, several libraries were developed, some of which are available in this repository. These libraries are divided into **data processing** and **sensors**. The data processing libraries are used to process the data collected from the sensors and extract features, while the sensors libraries are used to configure and collect data from the accelerometers. These libraries were used in the monitoring of some of the machines and are detailed in the respective DataProcessing and Sensors folders.